[pull] primary from flybywiresim:primary (#471)
Valastiri/fbw-userguide: docs/pilots-corner/advanced-guides/flight-planning/holds.md

# Holds

!!! warning "Not available in the Stable Version"

## Overview

> Holding patterns , as they are officialy known, can be used as a delaying tactic for airborn aircraft. Typically holding patterns have a racetrack pattern and can easily be spotted on flight trackers. All holds are made up out of segments, the segments are shown in the figure below. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Holding patterns, as they are officially known, can be used as a delaying tactic for airborne aircraft. Typically holding patterns have a racetrack pattern and can easily be spotted on flight trackers. All holds are made up out of segments, the segments are shown in the figure below. 
```

The last sentence doesn't explain much. Also maybe explain in general that pilots should be able to fly holds manually and know how to correctly enter and fly it them. The AP is just a convenience feature to reduce the pilot's workload.

Reviewer 2: will incorporate the comment

<!--- input composition of hold as the FAA doc shows
--->

> ### Why hold?

Reviewer: Headlines always with English headline capitalization - this tool helps :)
https://capitalizemytitle.com/

```suggestion
### Why Holds?
```

> Holdings are typically used to delay aircraft, or less common, to burn of fuel for landing.

Reviewer: There are several additional reasons - e.g. weather, traffic, to loose altitude, etc.

Reviewer 2: will find a fix for it

A good example usecase of a hold can be seen in Innsbruck (LOWI) in the picture below.

![LOWI](../../assets/advanced-guides/holds/LOWI.png)

### Preparing the hold

> Aircraft can technically hold, if given permission by ATC in advance, at any waypoint. Holds that are published on aviation charts are called published holds. For the purpose of this guide we will only take a published hold into condideration. Holds can be spotted on charts in 2 ways where both options can be applied on the same chart. For example look at the chart below. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Aircraft can technically hold at any waypoint, if given permission by ATC in advance. Holds that are published on aviation charts are called published holds. For the purpose of this guide we will only take a published hold into consideration. Holds can be spotted on charts in 2 ways where both options can be applied on the same chart. For example look at the chart below. 
```

Reviewer 2: will incorporate the comment

Waypoints with published holds can be spotted by a racetrack pattern or a white H in a black box drawn in a chart. Holds displayed by the white H in the black box will always be accompanied by a visual racetrack patern in a diagram on the side of the chart. 

Now that you know where to hold, you should know how to set up the hold. To do this you will need to find information on the chart and move it into the FMS. The main information you need to have is:
1. Name of the fix/waypoint
2. Inbound course
3. Turning direction
4. Length of the legs, eather in time or distance
 

>  Eather the inbound course/heading or the reciprocal of the hold is always depicted on the chart.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 Either the inbound course/heading or the reciprocal of the hold is always depicted on the chart.
```

        | EGN           | 108°              |Left                | STD           | 230KT      |-      | 4000FT        |
        | KEA           | 335°              |Right               | STD           | 230KT      |-      | 5000FT        |

    === "10"

        Lorum ipsum

        |Fix            | Inbound course   |Turning direction   |Leg distance   |Max speed   |Max alt|Min Alt (MHA)  |
        | -----------   | -----------      |-----------         |  -----------  | --------   | ---   |-----          |
        | CRS           | 001°              |Left                |Until CVO VOR reads 34.0 NM|STD|-   | FL120         |
     
STD leg distance is defined by the FAA to be:

| Altitude (MSL)    | Leg distance  |
|---------------    |---------------|
| MHA - 14000FT     | 1 minute      |
| 14001FT and above | 1.5 minutes   |

STD Max hold speed is defined by the FAA to be:

| Altitude (MSL)    | Airspeed (KIAS) |
|---------------    |-----------------|
| MHA - 6000FT      | 200             |
| 6001FT - 14000FT  | 230             |
| 14001FT and above | 265             |

### Entering the hold

> Now all information of the hold is known it is time to create a hold in the FMS via the MCDU. A step by step guide to hold at SKENS as with example chart 6 (above) is provided below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that all information of the hold is known it is time to create a hold in the FMS via the MCDU. A step by step guide to hold at SKENS as with example chart 6 (above) is provided below.
```

# Holds

!!! warning "Not available in the Stable Version"

## Overview

> Holding patterns, as they are officially known, can be used as a delaying tactic for airborne aircraft. Typically holding patterns have a racetrack pattern and can easily be spotted on flight trackers. All holds are made up out of segments, the segments are shown in the figure below. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Holding patterns, as they are officially known, can be used as a delaying tactic for airborne aircraft. Typically holding patterns have a racetrack pattern that can easily be spotted on flight trackers and navigational charts. All holds are made up out of segments, the segments are shown in the figure below. 
```
suggestion only

![DEFINITIONS](../../assets/advanced-guides/holds/Holddefinitions.png)

### Why Hold?

> Holds are always used to 'hold' aircraft roughly on the same place. There are a lot of reasons airplanes might need to hold, some more common examples are:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Holds are always used to delay aircraft near a navigational fix in certain airspace. There are a lot of reasons airplanes might need to hold, some more common examples are:
```

Could mention it's a maneuver as well. Just generally bad to define a word with itself. i.e. "Hold is a Hold"

Reviewer 3: Could use better phrasing in my suggestion as well just more of an interim change.

- Bad weather passing over the airport
- Traffic
- To lose energy in the plane (altitude or speed)
- To burn of fuel

Sometimes holds are used because of topographical constraints, Innsbruck-Kranebitten International Airport (LOWI) is a good example of such constraint because is situated in a vally as can be seen in the picture below.

![LOWI](../../assets/advanced-guides/holds/LOWI.png)

### Preparing the hold
Aircraft can technically hold at any waypoint, if given permission by ATC in advance. Holds that are published on aviation charts are called published holds. For the purpose of this guide we will only take a published hold into consideration. Holds can be spotted on charts in 2 ways where both options can be applied on the same chart. For example look at the chart below. 

Waypoints with published holds can be spotted by a racetrack pattern or a white H in a black box drawn in a chart. Holds displayed by the white H in the black box will always be accompanied by a visual racetrack patern in a diagram on the side of the chart. 

> Now that you know where to hold, you should know how to set up the hold. To do this you will need to find information on the chart and move it into the FMS. The main information you need to have is:
> 1. Name of the fix/waypoint
> 2. Inbound course
> 3. Turning direction
> 4. Length of the legs, eather in time or distance

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now that you know where to hold, you should know how to set up the hold. To do this you will need to find information on the chart and move it into the FMS. The main information you need to have is:

1. Name of the fix/waypoint
2. Inbound course
3. Turning direction
4. Length of the legs, eather in time or distance
```
Need empty space - list broken

 
 The inbound course/heading or the reciprocal of the hold is always depicted on the chart.

>  Below you will find samples of diffrent holds with red dots placed where the information is located.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 Below you will find samples of different holds with red dots placed where the information is located.  
```

6. The rank of titles is a little odd, please advise if there is a more logical solution here
7. A thorough spelling and grammar check has not yet been done by me
9. Images at [Leaving the hold](#leaving-the-hold) do not have any subscript, I (Sven) think it might be good to add a little supportive text there
8. Images are not yet optimized and the images are made in Powerpoint, I (Sven) have the powerpoint file to make changes to the figures.  Plan is to optimize after content of figure is good. Would it be helpfull to place the powerpoint file in the assets/hold directory? please let me know what is desired here.

Now the real page will start. 

# Holds

!!! warning "Not available in the Stable Version"

## Overview

Holding patterns, as they are officially known, can be used as a delaying tactic for airborne aircraft. Typically holding patterns have a racetrack pattern that can easily be spotted on flight trackers. All holds are made up out of segments, the segments are shown in the figure below. 

![DEFINITIONS](../../assets/advanced-guides/holds/Holddefinitions.png)

### Why Hold?

> Holds are always used to delay aircraft near a navigational fix in certain airspace. There are a lot of reasons airplanes might need to hold, some more common examples are:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Holds are always used to delay aircraft near a navigational fix in certain airspace. There are a lot of reasons airplanes might need to hold, where common examples would be:
```

- Bad weather passing over the airport
- Traffic
- To lose energy in the plane (altitude or speed)

> - To burn of fuel

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To burn off fuel
```

> Sometimes holds are used because of topographical constraints, Innsbruck-Kranebitten International Airport (LOWI) is a good example of such constraint because is situated in a vally as can be seen in the picture below.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Sometimes holds are used because of topographical constraints, Innsbruck-Kranebitten International Airport (LOWI) is a good example of such constraint because it is situated in a valley as can be seen in the picture below.
```

![LOWI](../../assets/advanced-guides/holds/LOWI.png)

### Preparing the hold

> Aircraft can technically hold at any waypoint, if given permission by ATC in advance. Holds that are published on aviation charts are called published holds. For the purpose of this guide we will only take a published hold into consideration. Holds can be spotted on charts in 2 ways where both options can be applied on the same chart. For example look at the chart below. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Aircraft can technically hold at any waypoint if given permission by or requested from ATC in advance. Holds that are published on aviation charts are called published holds. For the purpose of this guide, we will only take a published hold into consideration. Holds can be identified on charts in 2 different ways, where both options can be applied on the same chart. For example look at the chart below. 
```

You mention example chart below but there's text that follows. Missing example?

Reviewer 2: yeah its in there now

Waypoints with published holds can be spotted by a racetrack pattern or holds can be published displayed in a diagram in one of the corners of the main navigation section on the chart. 

> Now that you know where to hold, you should know how to set up the hold. To do this you will need to find information on the chart and move it into the FMS. The main information you need to have is:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now that you know where to hold, you should know how to program the hold. To do this you will need to find information on the chart and move it into the FMS. The main information you need to have is:
```
Maybe use program by default instead of set up -- check other cases. This is a suggestion.

1. Name of the fix/waypoint
2. Inbound course
3. Turning direction

> 4. Length of the legs, eather in time or distance*
> 5. Maximum airspeed*

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4. Length of the legs, eather in time or distance (see Standards below)
5. Maximum airspeed (see Standards below)
```
If using the admonition in the review comment below - identify here instead of the asterisk.

Reviewer 2: yeah thanks for that it is fixed now

> *There are standards for length of legs and airspeeds that have to be respected if no other information is present on the chart. The standards are published in [Hold Standards](#hold-standards).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
!!! tip "Standards"
    There are standards for length of legs and airspeeds that have to be respected if no other information is present on the chart. The standards are published in [Hold Standards](#hold-standards).
```
This creates the green "tip" admonition or a green line to identify supporting information. (More of a formatting thing). Note asterisk changes in the list above this.

Reviewer 2: done

 
 The inbound course/heading or the reciprocal of the hold is always depicted on the chart.

 Below you will find samples of different holds with red dots placed where the information is located.  

!!! info "Example charts to aquire hold information"

    === "1"

        

        ![HOLD1](../../assets/advanced-guides/holds/HOLD1.png)

>         | Fix           | Inbound course   |Turning direction   |Leg distance   |Max speed   |Max alt|Min Alt (MHA)  |

Reviewer: If you transpose these tables it would not show a horizontal navigation bar.
E.g.:
Fix | ARNUM
Inbound Course | 216°
....

Reviewer 2: Do you mean just flipping the table from horizontal to vertical? stacking the items instead of next to eachother

Reviewer 3: Yup move the identifiers to the left column and supporting information to the right.

        ![HOLD10](../../assets/advanced-guides/holds/HOLD10.png)

        |Fix            | Inbound course   |Turning direction   |Leg distance   |Max speed   |Max alt|Min Alt (MHA)  |
        | -----------   | -----------      |-----------         |  -----------  | --------   | ---   |-----          |
        | CRS           | 001°              |Left                |Until D34.0 CVO|STD|-   | FL120         |
     
## Hold Standards

STD leg distance is defined by the FAA to be:

| Altitude (MSL)    | Leg distance  |
|---------------    |---------------|
| MHA - 14000FT     | 1 minute      |
| 14001FT and above | 1.5 minutes   |

STD Max hold speed is defined by the FAA to be:

| Altitude (MSL)    | Airspeed (KIAS) |
|---------------    |-----------------|
| MHA - 6000FT      | 200             |
| 6001FT - 14000FT  | 230             |
| 14001FT and above | 265             |

### Entering the hold
Now that all information of the hold is known it is time to create a hold in the FMS via the MCDU. A step by step guide to hold at SKENS as with example chart 6 (above) is provided below.

!!! info "Programming the hold"

>     === "1"

Reviewer: I'm still not a fan of tabs :)

Reviewer 2: I know. will think of another solution together

        Find the waypoint in the F-PLN page on the MCDU. Select the corresponding line. In this case the 3rd from the top, SKENS, and push the left line selector key (LSK) for SKENS.

    
    === "2"

        ![MCDU](../../assets/advanced-guides/holds/MCDU-hold-2.png)

        In this page select the 3rd LSK to enter the hold section for the SKENS waypoint.

    === "3"

        ![MCDU](../../assets/advanced-guides/holds/MCDU-hold-3.png)

        Notice the title of the page is called COMPUTED HOLD at SKENS. 
        
        Computed means that this is information provided from the simulator. This information can be wrong, and can be edited by overwriting the computed information. 

    === "4"
        ![MCDU](../../assets/advanced-guides/holds/MCDU-hold-4.png)

        As can be seen by the bigger symbols, the inbound course 274 is inserted in the FMS
        
        Note that the title has changeed to HOLD and a REVERT TO COMPUTED appeared.  REVERT TO COMPUTED will restore all hold settings and revert back to the computed hold settings.

    === "5"

        ![MCDU](../../assets/advanced-guides/holds/MCDU-hold-5.png)

>         As can be seen in the chart in example 6 above, the hold has a leg length of 10NM. To enter this in the FMS type '/10' in the MCDU and select LSK3 to feed it in the TIME/DIST box. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        As can be seen in the chart in example 6 above, the hold has a leg length of 10NM. To enter this in the FMS type `/10` in the MCDU and select LSK3 to feed it in the TIME/DIST box. 
```

I would also group the same chart here to make more sense and stop reading from having to jump back and forth.

Reviewer 2: done. please review the placement of the image

        The time needed to complete the leg is also re-calculated and is 3.3 minutes in this case. 

        If leg distance is constrained by time (as it is for a standard hold) this can be set by typing for example 1.5 in the MCDU and feeding it in the TIME/DIST box. Also now, the leg distance will automatically be re-calculated.

    === "Last Exit"

        !!! warning "Not yet implemented"

        ![MCDU](../../assets/advanced-guides/holds/MCDU-hold-5.png)

        In the bottom section of the MCDU screen 'LAST EXIT' can be found. The section compromises of a UTC and FUEL reading. Last exit gives information on how long the airplane can safely stay in the hold while still having the fuel for the rest of the approach, to go around, divert and the final reserve fuel. The UTC and FUEL will give you the time and the minium fuel respectively needed when leaving the hold. 

    === "6"

>         ![MCDU](../../assets/advanced-guides/holds/MCDU-hold-7.png)

Reviewer 3: Possibly draw squares on the images ... just realized this. Would help users quickly identify what to look at in images. See TCAS or other examples throughout docs. (Or ask Mav or me).

        Also notice how the hold waypoint now appears for an additional time in the flight plan. This is needed for the FMS to calculate a good exit path when leaving the hold.

        Holds need to be entered in diffrent ways with diffrent inbound courses. The A320 will automatically fly the correct entering pattern.

    === "7"
        ![MCDU](../../assets/advanced-guides/holds/MCDU-hold-8.png)
        
        As soon as the aircraft is heading to the waypoint with the hold programmed the hold will be calculated and completely shown on the ND.  

    === "8"
        ![MCDU](../../assets/advanced-guides/holds/MCDU-hold-9.png)

        When the aircraft passes the hold fix for the first time (entering the hold) the airplane will fly at green dot speed. The green dot speed is the speed at which the A320 can stay airborne while using the minimum amount of fuel per hour making. 

        Also, the F-PLN page on the MCDU will now show IMM EXIT*. This is needed when [leaving the hold](#leaving-the-hold).

### Desending in the hold

> Altitude changes are done with the vertical speed mode set at 1000 ft/min. This is to make sure all aircraft are spaced out enough to comply with spacing safety standards/

Reviewer 3: Is this automatically commanded by the AP or manually commanded on the FCU? I can't remember. If it is better to state it as such.

Reviewer 2: i don't know, will jump in the sim later to find out. will get back on this

The TCAS system should remain on TA/RA when flying in the hold, however it might be convenient to switch to ALL or BLW.

### Leaving the hold

> The plane will continue to fly in the hold until a pilot gives the command to the FMS to leave. During the hold the F-PLN page will display IMM EXIT in amber. To leave the hold all a pilot has to do is to press the LSK right of the IMM EXIT. The amber text will now change in RESUME HOLD. When RESUME HOLD is displayed the aircraft will complete the remaining hold lap and continue its flightplan when it reaches the hold fix again.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The plane will continue to fly in the hold until a pilot gives the command to the FMS to leave. During the hold the F-PLN page will display IMM EXIT in amber. To leave the hold the pilot has to press the right LSK next to IMM EXIT. The amber text will now change in RESUME HOLD. The aircraft will complete the remaining hold lap and continue its flightplan when it reaches the hold fix again. 
```
Maybe quickly explain what resume hold does in another paragraph. I removed it because it might be confusing to the user saying it twice.

Reviewer 2: great wording! thanks!

# Holds

!!! warning "Not available in the Stable Version"

> Holding patterns, as they are officially known, can be used as a delaying tactic for airborne aircraft. Typically holding patterns have a racetrack pattern that can easily be spotted on flight trackers. All holds are made up of segments. The segments are shown in the figure below. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Holding patterns, as they are officially known, can be used as a delaying tactic for airborne aircraft, for course reversal, and for gaining altitude prior to crossing terrain in some procedures. Typically holding patterns have a racetrack pattern that can easily be spotted on flight trackers. All holds are made up of segments. The segments are shown in the figure below. 
```

![DEFINITIONS](../../assets/advanced-guides/holds/Holddefinitions.png){loading=lazy}

## Why Hold?
Holds are always used to delay aircraft near a navigational fix in certain airspace. There are a lot of reasons airplanes might need to hold, where common examples would be:

- Bad weather passing over the airport
- Traffic

> - To lose energy in the plane (altitude or speed)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- To gain or lose energy in the plane (altitude or speed)
```

- To burn off fuel

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- To reverse the course of the aircraft prior to entering a final approach

```

        Depending on the angle between the aircraft and the inbound course of the hold, aircraft need to fly different entry patterns. The A320 will automatically fly the correct entry pattern.

    === "7"
        ![MCDU](../../assets/advanced-guides/holds/MCDU-hold-8.png){loading=lazy}
        
        As soon as the aircraft is heading to the waypoint with the hold programmed, the hold will be calculated and completely shown on the ND. [IMM EXIT*](#leaving-the-hold) will also appear on the MCDU. 

    === "8"
        ![MCDU](../../assets/advanced-guides/holds/MCDU-hold-9.png){loading=lazy}

        Before the A320 passes the hold fix for the first time, it will slow down to 'green dot speed'. This is the speed at which the aircraft uses the minimum fuel per hour to ensure it can stay in the hold as long as possible. So make sure to set speed to managed speed to fly at green dot speed. 

        Also, the F-PLN page on the MCDU will continue to show IMM EXIT*. This is needed when [leaving the hold](#leaving-the-hold).

### Descending in the Hold

> Altitude changes are done with the vertical speed mode set at 1000 ft/min. This is to make sure all aircraft are spaced out enough to comply with spacing safety standards.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Managed descent mode (DES) in the hold will limit the descent rate to a maximum of -1000 ft/min for traffic separation purposes. Open descent (OP DES) will descend at idle thrust as normal.
```

The TCAS system should remain on TA/RA when flying in the hold. However, it might be convenient to switch to ALL or BLW.

### Leaving the Hold

> The plane will continue to fly in the hold until a pilot gives the command to the FMS to leave. During the hold, the F-PLN page will display IMM EXIT in amber. The pilot has to press the right LSK next to IMM EXIT to leave the hold. The amber text will now change in RESUME HOLD. The aircraft will fly the shortest distance to the original hold fix and then exit, such as doing a tight circle or turning early on downwind. The aircraft will continue its flight plan when it reaches the hold fix again. 
> 
> RESUME HOLD can be pressed to cancel the hold exit. The aircraft will now stay in the hold, and IMM EXIT is shown again.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```suggestion
The plane will continue to fly in the hold until a pilot gives the command to the FMS to leave by either activating a direct to (DIR TO), or pressing the IMM EXIT prompt on the F-PLN page. During the hold, and prior to the hold after crossing the deceleration point, the F-PLN page will display IMM EXIT prompt in amber. The pilot may press the right LSK next to IMM EXIT to leave the hold. The aircraft will shorten the hold as much as possible, fly around until reaching the hold fix, and then exit, continuing with the subsequent flight plan. At any time prior to reaching the hold fix the RESUME HOLD prompt may be used to re-enable the hold.
```
```

        Also, the F-PLN page on the MCDU will continue to show IMM EXIT*. This is needed when [leaving the hold](#leaving-the-hold).

### Descending in the Hold
Managed descent mode (DES) in the hold will limit the descent rate to a maximum of -1000 ft/min for traffic separation purposes. Open descent (OP DES) will descend at idle thrust as normal.

The TCAS system should remain on TA/RA when flying in the hold. However, it might be convenient to switch to ALL or BLW.

### Leaving the Hold

> ```suggestion

Reviewer 3: Unsure of the use / reason for the code block here that's not closed.

The plane will continue to fly in the hold until a pilot gives the command to the FMS to leave by either activating a direct to (DIR TO), or pressing the IMM EXIT prompt on the F-PLN page. During the hold, and prior to the hold after crossing the deceleration point, the F-PLN page will display IMM EXIT prompt in amber. The pilot may press the right LSK next to IMM EXIT to leave the hold. The aircraft will shorten the hold as much as possible, fly around until reaching the hold fix, and then exit, continuing with the subsequent flight plan. At any time prior to reaching the hold fix the RESUME HOLD prompt may be used to re-enable the hold.

![Hold Modes](../../assets/advanced-guides/holds/MCDU-hold-14.png){loading=lazy}

## Video Tutorial by 320 Sim Pilot

> <iframe width="826" height="465" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/NYlSICln1So" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
![video-embed](https://www.youtube.com/embed/NYlSICln1So)
```
Cleaner and utilizes our plugin installed.

# Holds

> !!! warning "Not available in the Stable Version"

Reviewer 4: I don't think this is true anymore? [The code is there in v0.8.2](https://github.com/flybywiresim/a32nx/blob/v0.8.2/src/fmgc/src/guidance/lnav/legs/HX.ts).
